title: Create and set up client
Description:
Summary:
Sidebar: krr_sidebar
Product: krr
Redirect_From: /Krr_ Raising_ Client

To make a request to one or more of KRR's endpoints, the business must set up a client by self -service web or self -service API. Here we describe how you can create clients by self -service web, but similar can be done by self -service API. 
Register new user on my page
The use of self -service assumes that your business has access to the collaborative portal and that you are registered a user. Register new user on my page.
{% Include note.html Content = "In order to register a new user, you must use the email domain for your business!" %}
Create client

Log in to my page and go to "Integrations" in the menu on the left.
Tap "Self -Service" and select the environment in which you want to create the client.
Select "Add New".

Set up client
a. At the residual reference service
- Select "Machine Gate & Krr".
- Under "Scope", select the Scope package "Krr". Then you will automatically be assigned the right scopes.
  For lookups in KRR, KRR is: Global/contact information. Read relevant.
- Integration identifier: generated automatically and should be used in jwt_claims.
- Name of integration: Custom, unique name of integration.
- Description: Custom description of what the integration should be used for.
b. Lookup by user login (user -controlled data sharing)
-Select "ID port & API client".
- Below "Will the client use external scope?", Choose "Yes".
- You must manually add the scop: KRR: User/contact information.READ.
Link to more detailed description of the scopes.

Complete the registration by pressing "Create".

{% Include note.html content = "When creating, you get an integration page (client ID) that must be used in the request for the ID port." %}
For suppliers
If you are a supplier for the customer (data processor and processing manager), the customer's organization number must be added when setting up a client. 
In addition, a so-called Onbehalfof client (at the bottom of the self-service page must be created when creating a client), where the supplier must enter a desired Onbehalfof value (Entity ID), name and org.no. 
"ISS_ONBEHALFOF": "Onbehalfof value" must be included in Claims when requesting the Access token from the machine gate. 
Adding key to client
The public key will be added to the client, instructed as JWK. More description on how the key should be registered here.
Get started with the code
This repo can help to get started with the code.