Title: Trust Framework
Description: Trust framework
Sidebar: Wallet
Product: wallet
redirect_From: /wallet_ trust framework

In the sandbox, Digdir will manage the national trust list, which will contain what actors are approved as:
- PID issuers
- wallet operators
- Qualified issuers (Qeaa)
- Public issuers (pub-EAA)
- User City Certificate issuers


graph

subgraph ak [confidence list]
  Tli [(register of issuers)]
  Tlw [(register of pocket books)]
  Tlrp [(Register of User City Registers)]
end

  Drpr [(digdir userstad register)]
  RPR [(Other User City Registers)]

Tlrp ---> drpr
Tlrp ---> rpr


The trust framework in the sandbox



It is worth noting that the very usage parties (relay parties) do not end up on the central confidence list, but that it is a two-level structure: The central list lists only at a PKI managed by approved user city certificates. There may be more such certificate issuers in a country. Eit user city must contact a registrar to obtain a Brukarstad Certificate (relay Party Access Certificate. Normally, registrar and certificate issuer will be the same organization. 
In the sandbox, Digdir will offer such a user city certificate. 
Technical depiction
Technically, the confidence between the actors in the wallet ecosystem is primarily based on PKI, ie the X.509 certificate to meet certain properties and qualities.  
The main actors must have their signing certificate published on a list of confidence, see the figure at the top of Arf 3.1 and detailed depiction in Arf Chapter 3.5.
The confidence list is based on the ETSI standard 102 231 and is in practice an XML file that lists the actors and their signing certificate. 
For a judgment on a real production list list, you can look at the Norwegian list of providers of qualified trust services.
In the final production ecosystem of the EU, the only member states have access and responsibility for publishing these certificates on the EU's confidence list. 
Practice
Contact Digdir to get a user city certificate.  
Feel free to use the access service to study who is the actors in the sandbox.
Digdir 
If the certificate is not included in the confidence list, an attempt at the interaction should be rejected.  to issuers, wallet providers or user city registrars.