title: get started with development
Description: ""
Summary: ""
Product: eFormidling
Sidebar: eFormidling_sidebar
Redirect_From:
- /eFrasing_nm_message
- /eFrasing_nm_custominintegation

The purpose of this site is to help developers start using the functionality of e -molding.

TOC 
{: toc}

Get started with development
The very first one should do is read the introduction to eFrue and the overall description of the functionality
One should use.

Introduction to eForsing

Emsyring supplies an intermediate product (integration point) that gives a professional system a single interface for message exchange
Regardless of what types of messages are exchanged with whom. Before one can get started with development one should have access to
an integration point to develop courage. Emsyring offers a public test environment along with the messaging services used in
Em shape, and the integration point must be configured with necessary access to these. Feel free to see:

Get started with the integration point
Testing

In some rare cases, a business wants to communicate with businesses on e -officing without even running a
Integration point. This is possible, but not recommended. Feel free to see:

Get started with e -officing with no integration point

The integration point offers two programming interfaces. The interface is recommended for all new development.
The second interface, phased out and is therefore not mentioned more on this page. The interfaces are in
The starting point is not protected, but can be configured with http basic auth and https.
 Is JSON-based and supports the following functionality:

Receive messages
send messages
See the status of sent messages

The same API calls are used regardless of current processes, document types and messaging services involved. Before
Examples follow a publication to e -insight the same flow as a shipment to the inhabitant. This facilitates that
Client implementations can use programming models that make it easy to expand to new use cases.   
To support this model, all messages are built with the same basic structure.

graph lr
subgraph message
  Subgraph Standard Business Document 
    EL1 [Standard Business Document Header Standard Addressing Information]  
    EL2 [Business Report Extra Addressing Information and Instructions Depending on the Document Type]
  end
  Subgraph encrypted document package
    EL3 [Associated Signature Container Extended Zip archive with structured and/or unstructured content]
  end
end

See more about the Emsynings Standard Business Document (SBD) at:

Standard Business Document

SBD has a given document type and an associated business message:

Document types

See more about the Emsydidling Document Package at:

Document pack

See more about the integration point's programming interface at:

Emofide 2

Examples are often a good way to get started. See examples of the use of the various processes in eFonsidling:

Examples

--[Sample client at GitHub] (https://github.com/felleslosinger/efm-meDoging- Client) (external link)
Development for service providers
Emsyring has functionality to facilitate service providers offering e -officing as part of their
Services.

A supplier can send messages on behalf of multiple businesses so that no one is required
Integration point for each sender business
A single business can use multiple integration points for various purposes so that a business services can be distributed
On several service providers

Read more about delivery models in eFonsidling:

Get started with the integration point
On behalf of others
Channel

Get started with e -officing with no integration point
In some rare cases, a business wants to communicate with businesses on e -officing without even running a
Integration point. This is possible, but not recommended.
To use e -mediation without integration point:

Lookup against Emsynings Address Service must be implemented to know which businesses can receive what content
Emsynidling's address service
An integration must be set up against the Esmofling's messaging service
Emsynidling's messaging service
Delivery of notification statuses to eFrue Message Status Service must be implemented
Emsynings Message Status Service
Business rules to ensure that messages are sent where the recipient wants them, required notification, etc. must be implemented
The flow in the desired process must be implemented including integrations with any other messaging services required by
a process
Any other message functionality (queue, error handling, ...) that is desired to be implemented

Support by development

Emsydling on the Docs Docs
General support for e -mouring is offered by serviceedesk@dir.no
If necessary, e -dissemination wants to offer extended support to those who implement integrations against eForsing. Toe
   Contact with serviceedesk@igdir.no and ask for the opportunity to get a Slack channel towards the Emsynings team.

Development of eForsing
Emsyring is developed continuously in accordance with. Current strategy. New needs and specific change wishes are welcomed and prioritized 
running.
Open source
Most of the e -officing is available as an open source:

The integration point of GitHub (external link)
Address Service (Service Registry) at GitHub (external link)
Everything from eForsing at GitHub (external link)
Implementation of Associcated Signature Container Extended (ASIC-E) on GITHUB (external link)