title: channel
Description: ""
Summary: ""
Product: eFormidling
Sidebar: eFormidling_sidebar

A business can use the same messaging service from several integration points with several suppliers. One must then choose to
receive to one of the integration points while everyone can send. As a supplier, one can facilitate this by:

Use channel for outbound messages - otherwise the installations will "steal" incoming message statuses and receipts 
  apart
Turn off incoming messages - otherwise the installations will "steal" incoming messages from each other

If a third -party service only needs to send messages, it can advantageously use channels. A business can
use several third -party services with channels but only a third -party service without channel where the business can both
Send and receive.
Channels for Altinn Digital Post
Altinn Digital Post only supports outbound messages. Message Statuses and Receipts are picked up given message identifier
So that the installations will not "steal" incoming message statuses and receipts from each other.
Therefore, one does not need to configure channels to run more integration points for Altinn Digital Post for the same
business.
Channels for digital mail to residents
Digital mail to residents only supports outbound messages. Message Statuses and Receipts are picked up a desired
Number.
To prevent the installations from "stealing" incoming message statuses and receipts must be configured channel, see
 under:

Configuring Digital Post to residents

Channels for KS Svarut and Replyer
KS Svarut supports outbound messages and KS Replyer supports incoming messages. Message Statuses and Receipts
Retrieved the message identifier so that the installations will not "steal" incoming message statuses and receipts
apart.
To prevent the installations from "stealing" incoming messages, one must turn off KS Replies for all installations
Apart from the person receiving incoming messages. Look below:

Configure KS Svarut and Responseinn

Channels for e -Designing Message Service
Emsynidling's messaging supports both outbound and incoming messages. Messages, message statuses and
Receipts are obtained given a desired number.
To prevent the installations from "stealing" incoming messages, message statuses and receipts must be configured
Channel, see below:

Configure Emsyding's messaging service

Channels for e -insight messaging service
The sights messaging service does not support channels and one business can therefore only have one installation using e -insight
messaging service.
Channels for KS FIKS IO
KS FIKS IO addresses at system level so that channel is not relevant.