title: on behalf of
Description: ""
Summary: ""
Product: eFormidling
Sidebar: eFormidling_sidebar

A supplier can use one integration point to act on behalf of one or more companies.
Such a setup requires that:

The integration point is configured with the supplier's business certificate and organization number
The supplier gets the necessary access from e -officing
The supplier gets delegated access from the business the supplier will act on behalf of
Integration point interface Emsyring 2 is used
When sending a message, it must be stated which of the businesses are the sender
Upon receipt of a message status, it must be linked to the right message in the right sender
Upon receipt of a message it must be linked to the right message in the right sender

For a description of how the sender is specified, see below:
- Standard Business Document Header (SBDH)
How to configure on-weigh-ups depends on the message service in question.
On behalf of for Altinn Digital Post
When using Altinn Digital Post, all authorized senders are allowed to send on behalf of others. Altinn digital mail
Therefore, support on behalf of without any configuration or delegation of access.
On behalf of for digital mail to residents
When using digital mail for residents, authorization certificates are used from the machine gate to authorize the sender. These
The authorization certificates can be issued to a supplier on behalf of a customer. This assumes that:

Digdir has allocated the supplier access to send digital mail to residents
Digdir has allocated customer access to send digital mail to residents
Customer has delegated his access to send digital mail to residents to the supplier
The Supplier has informed Digdir about the delegation relationship between the supplier and the customer

The layout requires no additional configuration of the integration point.
The business must delegate the following access to the supplier using Altinn:



On behalf of for KS Svarut and Responseinn
KS Svarut and Svarinn do not have built -in support for a supplier to act on behalf of a customer. Such a delegation
In practice, solve by providing the customer's username and password to KS Svarut and Reply to the Supplier. This is supported by
The integration point in that one can configure many usernames and passwords for KS Svarut and Replyer.
Organization number, username and password for the businesses that the integration point should send and receive on behalf of must
is stated in configuration. See and below:

Configure KS Svarut and Responseinn


NB: On behalf of KS Svarut and Replyer, can first be used by version 2.9.0 of the integration point.

On behalf of for the Emsynings Message Service
The Emsynings Message Service is realized with Altinn dissemination. Customer can delegate his access to e -offers
messaging service to the supplier.
Organization number for the companies that the integration point must send and receive on behalf of must be stated in configuration.
Look below:

Configure Emsyding's messaging service

The business must delegate the following access to the supplier using Altinn:



On behalf of for the sights messaging service
Unlike the other messaging services, the supplier must be stated as sender in SBDH using e -insights
messaging service. The on-wetting ratio is specified in the business report for the publication. See:

Publishing

The supplier must notify the delegation relationship between the supplier and the customer.
The layout requires no additional configuration of the integration point.
On behalf of for KS FIKS IO
KS FIKS IO addresses at system level so that on behalf of is not relevant.