title: familiar errors
Description: ""
Summary: ""
Product: eFormidling
Sidebar: eFormidling_sidebar
Redirect_From: /eFormidling_selfhelp_Typical_Errors

There are some known error situations that can occur when installing the integration point, often related to error or missing configuration. Below we have tried to list regular error situations and how to avoid or solve them yourself.

TOC
{: toc}

General errors

White spaces behind lines in the file can often cause errors. Be sure to remove these

Locked File Database
If the integration point is killed during start -up and Liquibase does not remove the lock in the database, one must manually enter the database and update the contents from the Table DatabaseChangeloglock table

Download https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/Com/h2database/h2/1.4.200/h2-1.4.200.jar
Put the Earn in the same directory as the database lies ie Working Directory, where you run the integration point
Stop the integration point
Run "Java -jar. \ H2-1.4.200.jar"
JDB CURL: JDBC: H2: ./ Integration Point, User: SA, Blank Password
Check that the LOCK is there: Select * from databaseChangeloglock;
Run this command: Update DatabaseChangeloglock Set Locked = 0 Where ID = 1;
Verify that the Locken is now false.

The URL should be like this: JDBC: H2: C:/USERS/Catalog/IdeaProjects/EFM integration point/integration point/integration point
Replace with the right path
Shellet a running H2 client from must have administrator rights. And make sure the integration point does not run at the same time.
Postgres database is growing unreasonably much
'Large Object' cleanup using own database for the integration point
One should consider the cleaning of large objects if one uses postgresql as a separate database for the integration point. This is because Postgresql, as standard, stores Blob as "Large Object" (in its own table), and that JDBC does not clean up when deleting. The consequences if this is not done could be that backups first take a long time, and then begin to terminate due to high memory use. The Vacuumlo tool removes orphaned large objects.
400 Bad Request
400 Bad Request Error in the log often means you are trying to use a scope you do not have access to. Typically, this is not open on the Norwegian Digitalisation Agency. The scopesa you try to use is determined by properties such as or 
Contact the Norwegian Digitalisation Agency at serviceedesk@dir.no and ask for access. Feel free to send with Application.log 
Dpo
DPO messages are sent to the case archive system case archive system. Requires that both parties have an integration point and DPO enabled to receive/send. DPO functionality is activated at the setting.
Typical errors: Usernamn/Password, lack of access, errors in integration point-Local.Properties. Make sure the user name is what was autogenerated when creating the user. Read here for more info
User and password used are associated with a computer system uses that you create via the link above. Tied to this data light and there are several different known error messages you find on this page (external link)
Erroride 0. Userid 0

Error with usernamn/password. Probably missing content in the Property and 
Erroride 5. Userid 0

Typical due to typos in user name/password. 

This is because the user has been locked due to too many attempts with the wrong password. After 1 hour, the user will be automatically unlocked. If you do not think the correct password, you can log into Altinn and update the password there.
Check that user names and passwords are correct
If so, you can send a request and get back confirmation of whether the username/password is correct. (Requires Soapui installed)

Soapui project can be downloaded here


Download the project
Start Soapui and import the project
File-> Import Project-> Soapui-project-dpo-user check.xml
The project should now have appeared in the menu on the left side with the name 
Expand the project with plus the character: DPO User Check -> Basichttpbinding_ibrokerServiceExternalbasic -> Checkpoer 
When you are on checker and pass on double -click on.
A new window will be opened where you must enter usernames and passwords in addition to the org number for this business. The org number will be here in the field, usernamn in here and password in here. 
Once you have entered the necessary information, press the green play button in the upper left corner of this window. 

Correct username/password

User names and passwords are correct.  
Incorrect User Name/Password

Error in usernamn or password. New password can be created by logging into Altinn. Must be done by a person with authority in the business.
Erroride 6. Userid 0

Typical due to user name/password error. Possibly white spaces
Errorid 40202. Userid 0. Not in Srr With Appropriate Rights

Missing srr rights at Altinn. Contact the Norwegian Digitalisation Agency and specify the Organ no. serviceedesk@dir.no.digitalization Directorate will contact Altinn on behalf of dives and get it corrected.
The Given Reportee is not authorized to send files.

This is also a siral mistake. Contact the Norwegian Digitalisation Agency and specify the Organ no. serviceedesk@dir.no.digitalization Directorate will contact Altinn on behalf of dives and get it corrected.
FAILED DELIVERY TO ARCHIVE
Here there can be many different reasons. This is a very general error message that says that incoming DPO message could not be sent to the case archive system. Here you have to read more closely at the error message to see what it is. 
For example: is not set or is incorrect and the integration point is not allowed to connect to the case archive system. For example, it may be such a error message:
`` `
Caused by: java.lang.nullpointerexception: zero
`` `
Check that ... Endpointurl is properly set. Contact the Norwegian Digitalisation Agency at serviceedesk@igdir.no for questions.
Dpv
DPV messages are sent from the case archive system via the integration point and to the company's inbox in Altinn.
Agency system 123 is not authorized to call service from IP 192.168.0.1

The IP address on the server is not added to Altinn. This was in demand in the information form that was filled in at the start of the process. 
If IP addresses are to be changed or added, contact the Norwegian Digitalisation Agency serviceedesk@igdir.no and we will continue it to Altinn. Pretend org number, DPV user name, and desired IP address or IP range. You can also submit a form to service desk via this link (external link)
Invalid Security Token

Often due to the wrong username/password on and/or. Can also refer to errors with IP address or access to Altinn. 
If the error cannot be resolved by double -checking usernamn/password. Contact the Norwegian Digitalisation Agency serviceedesk@dir.no. 
Check that user names and passwords are correct
If so, you can send a request and get back confirmation of whether the username/password is correct. One will also be able to see if one tries to ask from the wrong IP address. (Requires Soapui installed)

Soapui project can be downloaded here


Download the project
Start Soapui and import the project
File-> Import Project-> Soapui-project-DPV-user check.xml
The project should now have appeared in the menu on the left side with the name 
Expand the project with plus the character: DPV User Check -> Custom Binding_ic -Barreling 
When you are on the check -up user and password double -click.
A new window will be opened where you must enter usernames and passwords in addition to the org number for this business. The org number will be here in the field, usernamn in here and password in here. 
Once you have entered the necessary information, press the green play button in the upper left corner of this window. 

Correct username/password

User names and passwords are correct. It also means that the IP address is correct. 
Incorrect User Name/Password

Error in usernamn or password. New password can be received by SMS, contact serviceedesk@igdir.no. 
Incorrect IP address, Correct User Name/Password 

The IP address on the cough must be whitelisted at Altinn.
Dpf
DPF messages are sent either from KS Svarut (municipality/county municipalities) or from the Case Archive System (eFormidling) via the integration point and then to KS's reporting intermediary where it is sent to Reperord. Incoming messages to Replies for companies using e-dissemination will be retrieved by the integration point and sent to the case archive system. 
Unauthorized 401
This is typically a longer stack trace that started with 

Down in the Stack Tracen there will be one or more lines referring to KS Svarut. eg

This may be due to the wrong user name/password on Svarut the user. There may also be a lack of configuration in KS Svarut. For example, fields that are not filled. There is also a similar error message for Reply. 
FAILED TO SEND MESSAGE
General error message with a longer Stack Trace. Down in the Stack Tracen stands for example

Here is the deeper troubleshooting to find the error. Contact the Norwegian Digitalisation Agency and state the time of shipment and orgno's digitalization Directorate can find various soapfaults in its log, these do not appear in the integration point log d.d. We want to get this into a future version of the integration point.
Post in Replyer is not automatically retrieved to the case archive system
Here there may also be more reasons for this, including:

The business has not uploaded the business certificate to the recipient system in KS Svarut and thus not completed the configuration. See guidance
Business has not registered its own organization number inside the recipient system in KS Svarut
If the sender's organization numbers are not included in the metadata in the report, the recipient will not be given the right to the case archive system. We have a workaround on this that involves using a dummy orgnr. Vha Property Read more here
Svarut users (municipalities/county municipalities) with Svarut version 4 or older cannot send with orgnr in metadata. 
Not all Svarut users (municipalities/county municipalities) send with orgnr, even if they can technically send it. For example, may be a lack of setup in KS Svarut of the sender.

Invalid location size
This is not an error, but a warning. This can occur when Receips.mv.db the database contains data from previous versions of the integration point. That is, it is upgraded without emptying it. This is no crisis, but will appear in the log. Can be removed by to 
do the following 
`` `java
2018-11-29 09: 46: 45,933 Warn 3932 --- [Main] O.A.A.Store.kahadb.messageTabase: Cannot Recover Message Audit
java.io.ioException: Invalid Location Size: 11: 4194399, SIZE: 878
        at org.apache.activeemq.Store.kahadb.disk.journal.dataafileacessor.reatrecord (computerafileAntor.java:88)
        at org.apache.activeemq.Store.kahadb.disk.disk.journal.journal.rournal.Read (Journal.java:936)
…
2018-11-29 09: 46: 45,948 Warn 3932 ---
java.io.ioxception: Invalid Location Size: 11: 4218153, Size: 91
        at org.apache.activeemq.Store.kahadb.disk.journal.dataafileacessor.reatrecord (computerafileAntor.java:88)
        at org.apache.activeemq.Store.kahadb.disk.disk.journal.journal.rournal.Read (Journal.java:936)
`` `
Dpi
DPI messages are sent through four corners model:
Sender (corner 1): This is the public authority or private activities that wish to send a digital message to a resident.
The sender uses a sender application or an integrated solution to generate and send the message to DPI. 
Message Distributor (Corner 2): The Message Provider is a service village that handles the actual dissemination of messages between the sender and the recipient. Infrastructure provider that handles safe and standard transport of messages. The Message Developer ensures that the message is sent in a safe way and that it is routed to the correct digital mailbox.
Digital mailbox supplier (corner 3): These are the suppliers that offer the digital mailboxes where the inhabitants can receive and read messages. Judging by digital mailbox suppliers are digipost and e-box. These suppliers receive messages from the message officer and store them in the inhabitant's mailbox. They also send out notice to the inhabitants when new mail is received.
Recipient (corner 4): The recipient is the inhabitant who has created a digital mailbox and chosen a mailbox supplier. The inhabitant receives notice of new mail via email or SMS, logs into the digital mailbox with electronic ID, and can read and manage messages there.
Unwrapping Message Failed: java.lang.langgalStateException: Verifying JWT FAILED!
This error may occur when one has not set the propertium:
Difi.move.dpi.Receip type = XMLSOAP
And or one is missing a firewall opening against Buypass:
Prod the environment
Test the environment