title: elma termology
Description: Elma Termology
Summary: "Elma Termology"
Product: Elma
Sidebar: elma_sidebar
redirect_From: /elma_terminology

Updated: 2023-04-11
Termology
Here are some terms which will be used through the elma manuals.
Service Provider (SP)
: A Company That Connects Organizations to the Peppol Network. A service provider is associated with one or more domains, and participants registered by the provider will only be approved for Message Exchange Within the Provider's Domain (s).
Access Point (AP)
: Representative A Physical Access Point Service Endpoint, Accessible Through One or Several Urls.
Endpoint
: An access point has one or more physical endpoints represented by a url and transport profile.
Transport profile
: The Transport Method that must be used for communicating with a donor ap. As4 is an example of a transport profile.
Access Point Provider (app) 
: An access point provider operates aps that the sps can use by making an agreement.
Agreement
: An agreement between the SP and an app for the usage of a specific access point.
Processes
: Standardized, Maintained Collections of Document Types Used in E-PROCUREMENT.
Participants
: Organizations that are connected to the peppol network. (An organization Might Act as Its Own Sp.) You can think of this as a "Contract" Between an organization and an SP, that connects the sp's custom organizations to the Peppol Network by the Means of the Sp's Associated App's Ap.
Certificates
: Your Peppol SP Certificate.
Domains
: Collections of Processes Used in e-Rocurement.
Document Types
: Standardized Message Types Belonging to Processes, Used in Communication Between Aps.
Identifier
: Identifier for A Participant, Consisting of a Set Prefix and an Organization Identifier. E.G. 9908: 991825827
SML (Service Metadata Locator)
: A dns that returns the address of the smp that holds the metadata of a donor pepper. The SML is the only Centrally Operated Component in the Peppol Transport Infrastructure. It is Managed by OpenPeppol and Operates Out of Brussels by DG/Digit.