Title: "Changes in the New ID port in 2022-2023"
Description: "We are making comprehensive Changes in the core of the ID port to make it more modern, robust and secure for the future. One of the main objectives for this project is to minimize the Impact on our Customers. Highlight the coming Changes. "
Sidebar: Oidc
Product: ID port
redirect_From: /oidc_protocol_new_idport

Background
"We are making comprehensive Changes in the core of ID port to make it more modern, robust and secure for the future. One of the main objectives for this project is to minimize the impact on our customers. There is aproject Page on the CONTERTSTIPALLY, THIS Page CONTERT POGNITTALLY, THIS PAGE CONTERT POSITAL FOR THE POSITE PROPECTAL FOR THE PROPERT POSITAL FOR THE POSITE POSITAL FOR THE POSITE POSITAL FOR THE POSITE FOR THE POSITE PROPERTHETSTALL. Migration.
We know the New Solution Will Not Be 100% Downward Compatible, So We Have Created This Page In Order To Highlight The Coming Changes. The Changes Will Mainly Effect Propriatary Mechanisms Created by Us, as well as any custom usage that deviates from the standard oauth protocol. We started to use oauth in an early draft-phase and we can see that standard libraries and applications are not using the mechanisms in the way We Tought They would be used.
The Current Agreement With Our Vendor Tietoevry Expires in Q3 2023. On The New Agreement, We Wish to Run All Services on the New Platform Only. The New Architechture Will Be Based on the Kubernetes Platform, and We Will Use Saas Services IF Needed. The "Heart" of the New ID port will be based on a Modern OAuth2/Oidc-Authorization server from Connect2id.  
Migration plan
Have a look at The Status-Page for the New ID port on the collaborative port for a detailed timeline. When the Changes Are Coming to Our Production Envir Roment, We Will Post A Message On Our StatusPage.
The Migration Will Be Divided Into 4 Main Stages.
| Stage | Date | Description |
|-|-|-|
| 1: Pilot | March 2023 | The Production Enviroment for the New New New ID port is Ready for Selected Services. No SSO to the Old Platform |
| 2: Normal Operation | May 2023 | The New Oidc Solution is Ready With Full Functionality and Performance. |
| 3: Moving of Saml | September 2023 | All Collect Integrations will be Seemlessly moved from the Old Id port to the New Saml Proxy. SSO Between Old and New Platform Is Ready. |
| 4: Shutdown | December 2023 | The Old Oidc-Missuer Is Turned Off. |  
When should in migrate?
If you are deading on SSO to other services, just as Altinn, you need to wait until after September 2023.
If Not, We Recommendation You to Migrate as Soon as Possible Starting From The End of March. Critical National Services should migrate after the pilot period. Digdir Will Make Direct Contact With Important/Critical Services.
How do in migrate?
This Dendends on your Current Integration.
A: Customer With Existing Oidc Client
In most cases, these are the steps to follow:

Open the outbound firewall to the new IP address.
Change the Issuer-URL to point to the new url: (TBD).  
Some IAM-Products Will Download The Updated Metadata and Trust Our New Certificate Automatically.


IF STEP 2 DID NOT HAPPEN Automatically, you need to manually configure the new endpoints from our metadata and trust our new signing Certificate.
Configure your integration to use pkce
You will be able to re-bus your existing 
You will be able to re-bus your existing as well as your existing business certificate / key

B: Customer With Collect Integration
If you want to stay on saml, you need to check if your collar integration is compatible with the reduced functionality of the new saml proxy. This could be checked when the test ensviroment is ready. You Will Also Need to Open The Outgoing Firewall for The New IP address.
We recommend all our customers to use oidc. This would require setting up a new client and follow our integration steps ..
Detailed Changes to the Protocol:
The New ID port is aiming to follow the oauth2.1 Specifications, Unlike 2.0 which is used today. This is because we want to follow the updated security demand from 2.1 The standard flow for all integrations will be oidc and code flow with forced use of pkce, state and nonce.
New Issuer
The New ID port will run on a New Domain With A New Issuer Value. Our signing Certficate Will Also Be Changed. The Issuer Is Not Yet Decided But Will Most Likely Be.  By providing a new issu, we will make it possible for our customers to gradually migrate to our new solution at a suitable hour.
However, this will make it a bit more complicated for api-downers that are using user-controlled data sharing. These api-downers will need to trust access_tokens from two isssers unless they coordinate the migration with their customers.
At the end of the migration period, the old issuer will be permanently shut down. Clients that are not migrated by this point will not work any longer.
New IP
The New ID port will run on a different IP address than today. All Customers With Outbound Firewall Must Open The Firewall to Our New Adress. The Address Will Be Posted Here When Ready.
SSO
The New ID port will victim SSO Between All Integrations Between Saml and Oidc.
Please note, in the pilot-stage and the start of the migration period there will be no sso betweren the new and old id port.
SSO-free login
The New ID port will victim a SSO-free login. Customers Will Be Able to Configure Their Clients Wether to Allow SSO or Not. This Will Be Done Through Our Self-Service Portal and API.
onbehalfof
Onbehalfof is a custom-made mechanism in the ID port to be used by vendors. This Will Still Pray Available for Oidc and Saml.
New Acr Values
There are new values for authentication levels.  The new values are and.  They can be used by a client to request user authentication on a minimum level with the parameter.  ID port will include the authentication level in the claim in the.
Forced Use of Pkce, State and Nonce.
All Clients Must Use Pkce in Addition to Instance-Uniquie State and Nonce Values. On Todays Solution, this is only required by public clients, and voluntely Yet Higly recommended for the Confidential Clients.
 will be changed
The -value from the Will Be Changed. Even Tough Most of Our Customers Primarily Use The Social Security Number in the -claim, There are some Iam-produced that uses the sub-value. In some cases, The IAM-Product Creathes Local User Databases (E.G. Keycloak), and there is a risk of duplicates.
In the, The Will Also Get New Values.
Changes to Single Logout and Revoking
Due to Changes in the Oidc Specifications Regarding Logout, We Are Considation to Change Todays Behavior and Align It To The Spec.

In Todays Solution, Revoking The Access_token/Refresh_token Will Termate the SSO session. Is this appropriate behavior?
Is it appropriate that logging out of a SSO session, also invalidates all the tokens belonging to the clients within the session?
The Spec Requires a "Do You Really Want To Log Out?" Message in the ID port in the logout process. Should we implement this?
How strict should the requirements be, in order to redirect the end-buser browser to the stated post_logout_redirect_uri?

More Frequent Redirect Back to the Client in Case of Errors
In the current Oidc Solution, All Error Situations Generates An Error Page in the ID port and the Login Flow Stops. In the New ID port, the end -us will more frquently be redirected back to the client along with an error description.
Removal of Implicit Flow Support
In the latest recommendions from IETF, Implicit Flow is not recommended. In the ID port, implicit is not allowed on new integrations, but is still available on existing clients. In the New ID port, Implicit Will Not Be Available For Any Clients. Clients using implicit today, must change their solutions to using code flow with pkce. On a Longer Term, We Are Also Considation Implementing Support for DPOP.
Tightening in client authentication with private_key_jwt
JWT for the parameter Must Contain Both and Claims.  The parameter must be stated to the token-endpoint along with. This is the document in the current solution, but the validation will be more strict in the new solution.
New parameter in response from Authorization Endpoint - 
Response from the Authorization Endpoint Will Include WHICH Contains The Value From The ID Port Issuer In That Enviroment. This could be used to avoid "mix-up attacks". This is specified in RFC 9207.
Client_id is required when using request_uri towards the authorization endpoint
When Using Par (Pushed Auhorization Request), Both and Must Be Included When Calling The Authorization Endpoint
Congregation
The New ID port will only victim A Very Basic Saml Support, Only to Existing Services. We Will Develop A Simple Saml-To-Oidc-Proxy which will be placed in front of the new oidc -iusser.
The Saml Proxy Will Support Saml Web Browser SSO 2.0 With Artifact Resolution Binding. It Will Support Only 1 AssertionConumerurl and 1 Combined Siggning and Encryption Certificate.
Updating the saml-metadata will not be available. When the Metadata Expires (e.g. When the Certificate Expires), We Expect That Our Customers Starts Using Oidc Instead of Saml.
Collect Will Be Phased Out Completely.
Pseudonymization
Pseudonymization will be affected by the change of the parameter. (See Above)  
The scope will be degrecated, meaning that all customers must use opaque tokens or pseudonymized scopes.