title: dpop
DESCRIPTION: ID port's functionality for DPOP - Demonstration of Proof of Possession
Summary: "DPOP provides protection against stealing and abuse of tokens by tying them to the client"
Sidebar: Oidc
Product: ID port
redirect_From: /oidc_func_dpop

About the functionality
DPOP - Demonstration of Proof of Possession - is a mechanism that protects against the abuse of tokens by tying them cryptographically to the client who retrieved them.
The method makes it more difficult for an attacker to use tokens that has been stolen, for example via man-in-the-medium attack. An ordinary token can be used by anyone who gets it via leakage or the like, before it expires on time.
DPOP is defined in RFC9449, and we refer to this for detailed documentation.
DPOP is used like this:

The client generates a DPOP JWT with a short life (eg 1 minute) that is bound to method and URL, and the client signs it with a private key.
The JWT is sent in the HTTP header along with calling /token.
The ID port validates that the DPOP heads are correctly signed and match the request.
The return token returned is tied to the client's public key and can only be used with a valid DPOP header.

DPOP requires the client to support:

Generation and handling of key pairs (Public/Private). Key can be autogenated or lie on a safe area depending on client type
Signing of JWTs
Inclusion of fields in Header

The access token you get in return should contain with one that is a "thumbprint" of the public key used earlier.
Requests against API that supports DPOP must use Authorization type DPOP and include DPOP proof in the header.
Refresh tokens with dpop
When DPOP is used, Refresh Tokens will also be bound to the client's public key, if the client does not use client authentication.
It involves:

Refresh Tokens can only be used with a valid DPOP header that matches the original key.
When rotating a key pair, a new refresh Token must be picked up with the new key.
Clients must therefore ensure safe and stable key management over time.

If DPOP is not used correctly when renewal of tokens, the request will be rejected.
NB: For clients using client authentication, you can choose to use the Refresh Tokenet to regain an access token that is tied to DPOP or not.
API support for dpop
In order for DPOP to provide full security, the APIs that the access token must also be used, support and validate the DPOP token bond.
This entails:

Access Tokens must be DPOP-bonded: The API must expect the access token to be used only with a valid headhead in each request.
Validation of DPOP heads: API should verify that:
The JWT -One in the header is correctly signed
 and the fields match the HTTP method and the URL of the API-Kall
JWT is not reused (Replay Protection)


Confirmation of token bonding: The Access Token field must contain a JWK Thumbprint (), which will match the JWK in the header.
Response by error: In case of error in DPOP validation, the API should return with header describing the error, eg:
  

API suppliers must therefore provide for:

Libraries/Tools that support DPOP verification
Option to retrieve the field from the token
Robust validation and incorrect handling

Example
A DPOP certificate SKL is included in the http header named DPOP in all calling to the token- endpoint and in all calls to APIs that require DPOP.
The DPOP Header is called DPOP and the content is the DPOP certificate in BASE64 format.

When you decoder the DPOP certificate, it looks like this:
`` `
{
  "Typ": "DPOP+JWT",
  "Alg": "ES256",
  "Jwk": {
    "KTY": "EC",
    "X": "L8TFRHX-34TV3HRCRDY9ZCKDLPBHF42UQUFWVAWBFS",
    "Y": "9ve4jf_ok_o64zbttlcunjajhmt6v9tdvru0cdvgrda",
    "CRV": "P-256"
  }
}.
{
  "JTI": "-BWC3ESC6ACC2LTC",
  "Htm": "Post",
  "Htu": "https://server.example.com/token",
  "IAT": 1562262616
}.
{
[Signature]
}
Typdpop+Jwtalgjwkhtmhtuiat`: is a Unix Timestamp that tells when the JWT was created
The JWT is signed with the private key belonging to the public key. One must take care of the private key in a safe way.
The response will look like this:

And in the access token there will be a thumbprint of the public key:

After token Response:
*: When using the DPOP-bound token, you have to include a hash of the access token in the Claim 
*: If there is a nonc value in the token response, the dop evidence must also contain it.
Example of API request:

Where the DPOP certificate looks like this when you decoder it:

We recommend using a library. See examples in Java here

For help or questions, contact us via Digdir's support channels.