Title: Projects 2020
Description: Projects 2020
Sidebar: Oidc
Redirect_From: /projects_2020

This "release" contains larger projects and potential pilots that would like to implement in 2020.
Releasen was production date 2020-12-31
New functionality:
Procurement New Eid Agreements-ID port and donkey
Today's agreements with the Eid suppliers run until November 2020, and new agreements must be made. The new agreements will be based on requirements that follow from the new regulations for trust services (introduced November 2019).
Notify Norwegian Eid to Eidas
New regulations for trust services introduced in November 2019 mean that Eid suppliers must be self-declared again to Nkom. Since the national requirements are largely based on European requirements (Eidas), Difi wants to run a project in 2020 where we are looking at at the same time reporting the EID solutions to the EU, so that Norwegian citizens can use their EIDER on European services.
Piloting of the employee gate
If there is interest from customers, we want to pilot different variants of "employee gate" in 2020. Possible concepts that are initially pointed out are:


Combine login with a "spectator voter" from e.g. Altinn Authorization or other sources of employee relationship


self-service Circle-of-Trust 


Use of Azure AD


Oidc provider as the core of new system architecture
The transition from SAML integrations to OIDC integrations goes fast. 40% of the traffic in the ID port now goes over Oidc. As a result, Difi decided in a project in 2019 that ID porte's system architecture must be changed to the OpenID Connect / OAUTH2 section becoming the core of new architecture. One must look at whether it is possible to use a shelf product IAM product instead of today's proprietary solution. At the same time, we will facilitate the use of shooting technology, both PAAS and SAAS solutions where possible.
Rewriting into a new system architecture begins now, and will continue until the current operating agreement expires in late 2021.
By 2020, we envision doing the following:


Piloting of various IAM products


Move SSO handling out of today's collar core and "Fram" to Oidc Provider