Title: Prepare installation
Description: ""
Summary: ""
Product: eFormidling
Sidebar: eFormidling_sidebar
Redirect_From:
- /e -mounds_ assets
- /Emsyring_making Certificate

Before you can install the integration point, some preparations are needed.

TOC
{: toc}

Order access
Before one can use e -dissemination, one must order the necessary access to the e -officing and the messages that are desired
used.
Note that if you want to use e-dissemination in the test environment, your own test accesses must be ordered:

Testing

See the collaborative portal for what it takes to get the necessary access to the Emsyring and the messaging services that
Used by Emsyring:

Use e -Design (external link)

Some of the messaging services require the business to create a user with username and password:

Create user for Altinn dissemination (necessary to use E -Design Service)
Create User for KS Svarut and Replyer
Create user for Altinn Digital Post

Contact our service desk if necessary:

serviceedesk@dir.no

Order business certificate
Before a business can use e -mediation, it must have been issued a business certificate.
Em shape requires a business certificate to authenticate the companies that use the service safely. IN
In addition, the business certificate is used for:

end-to-end encryption of messages between businesses in cases where the underlying messaging service supports
  this
Signing out of outbound messages in cases where the underlying messaging service supports this
Authentication of business against certain third -party services

A business on eForsing basically communicates in which the organization the business certificate is issued,
But it is also possible for an organization to act on behalf of other organizations.
Em shape supports a business certificate of the types Seid V1 and V2, but not esail. SSL certificates (including
Wildcard certificates) are not business certificates.
Note that if you want to use the E-Mediation Test Environment, it must be issued a separate test business certificate.
One can either use an already issued business certificate or order a new one:

Order business certificate from Buypass (external link)
Order business certificate from Commfides (external link)

Available business certificate in the Emsynidling certificate directory
To enable the sender to send end-to-end-encrypted messages to the recipient the public part of
The recipient's business certificate is first made available in the Emsynings Certificate Catalog.
Suppliers usually send the business certificate with the corresponding private key in a single file with surname
 () or () - this file must not be shared with the Norwegian Digitalisation Agency
Or others.
If the supplier has sent several files, it is the labeled as the authentication certificate to be used.
The public part of the business certificate can be obtained from - or file, and usually has a surname
, or.

How do I get the public part of the business certificate from a Keystore (or)?

In order to make the public part of the business certificate available in the Emsynings Certificate Catalog must be sent
This one to our service desk:

serviceedesk@dir.no

To avoid platform -specific problems it is recommended to put the public part of the business certificate in a
-file before it is sent.
Available business certificate for business integration point
To enable the sender to authenticate against e -officing and sign messages sent must
The business certificate with the associated private key is made available to the company's integration point.
When installing the integration point, the keives (or), () for
The business certificate and password for the keystor.
To avoid platform -specific problems, it is recommended that for the business certificate contains only English
letters, numbers, hyphen and period (avoid and other).
The integration point requires that password for the keystor () is identical to the password for the private
The key () in the Kestor.
Choose how to run the integration point
Emsynidling's integration point can be run using a docker or using Java directly.
Docker is recommended if you already use Docker or Kubernet in their operating environment.
Java is recommended if one has a traditional server-based operating environment.

How do I install the Java version the integration point requires?

If the e-insight client is to be used with the integration point, it is recommended that these be installed on the same server.
Set of necessary resources for the integration point
The following resources are required by the integration point:

1 cpu
2GB memory
At least 2 GB available disk (cover ~ 1 million messages)
Extra resources are required by any use of external database
Extra resources are required by any use of external message queue
Extra resources may be required by high-volume use

Plan securing the integration point
The integration point processes many information elements in need of hedging:

[Overview of information elements] https://docs.digdir.no/docs/eformidling/ skills/#security

The integration point is designed to run in a closed environment that only gives authorized system and users access to
The interfaces offered by the integration point. The companies themselves must consider what security measures are needed.
Digdir recommends that the integration point be ensured in line with good security practices:

Configure the Integration Point API with username and password (NB: Requires that system (s) to integrate with the integration point supports this)
Configure the Integration Point API with TLS (NB: requires that system (s) to integrate with the integration point support this)
Use functionality to keep usernames and passwords in environmental variables or Hashicorp vault so that secrets in plain text are avoided
Use external database instead of H2
Use External ActiveMQ instead of built -in Activemq
Limit access to the integration point API to the system (s) that integrate and user (s) that must have access to manage the integration point
Limit access to the integration point files to the user (s) that must have access to manage the integration point
Limit the integration point access to only necessary external and internal services
Do not expose the integration point API on the Internet
Drive the integration point in a professional operating environment

Configure firewall if required
If the integration point is to be run in an operating environment where outgoing traffic is filtered by a firewall it is necessary
to configure this to allow outgoing traffic from e -officing integration point to services integration point
user.
See descriptions included IP addresses for the Services Integration Point User:

eFormidling Production
eFormidling test

One must also allow incoming traffic to the integration point from the service (s) that will use the integration point.
The interface of the integration point is, by default, available on port, but can be set to something else if
desirable.
Configure time synchronization if missing
Em shape uses time -limited Json Web Tokens (JWT) to authenticate the businesses. One too old authentication will
Rejected. To prevent authentication from being rejected due to differences between e -dissemination clock and clock in
The driving environment for the company's integration point is important that the clock is synchronized using Network Time
Protocol (NTP). It is also important that the clock is adjusted correctly for time zone and summer time (CET / CEST in Norway).
Service provider selects the time source, which should be located internally in the data center.

You can check your watch at https://time.is/ (external link)
Read about Network Time Protocol (external link)

Next step

Installation