title: Installation
description: ""
summary: ""
product: eFormidling
sidebar: eformidling_sidebar
redirect_from: /eformidling_properties_config

The purpose of this page is to make it as easy as possible to install and configure eFormidling's
integration point.

TOC
{:toc}

Prerequisites
Installation of eFormidling's integration point assumes that the following points have been completed:

Preparing for installation

Docker-specific configuration
When using Docker, the integration point must be configured using environment variables.
How you specify the configuration depends on which tools are used: docker-compose, Kubernetes
or others. A few examples:

Example of configuration with Kubernetes
Example of configuration with docker-compose (external link)

The integration point's Docker image is without a persistent volume. To avoid data loss when, for example, restarts it is therefore
necessary to configure:

External database
Intermediate storage of messages to external database
External message queue

Java-specific configuration
When using Java directly, the integration point can be configured using a configuration file,
Java parameters or environment variables.

Start by creating a folder, for example

Then download integration point-local.properties and save in the above folder

Download integration point-[version number].jar

eFormidling recommends verifying that is from the Norwegian Directorate of Digitalisation.

How do I verify that the jar file is from the Norwegian Directorate of Digitalisation?

When you are finished, the structure of the area should look like this:

You must remove the uncomment (at the start of a line) from for
the current configuration property to take effect.

In addition, the integration point must be run with the necessary permissions to create files and folders in this file area.
When using Java directly, it is recommended to configure a background service that starts and stops the integration point when the operating system starts and stops, and that can be started and stopped manually if necessary. Example:

Running the integration point as a service (Windows)

Running the integration point with the task scheduler (Windows)
, or equivalent, depending on the distribution (Linux)

It is also possible to start and stop the integration point manually:

Running the integration point from the command window

Configure the integration point
Before the integration point can be started, it must be configured.
Different conventions are used for naming configuration properties depending on the mechanism used for
configuration. The following variants correspond to the same configuration property:

, or (for configuration file and Java parameters)
(for environment variables)

If additional protection of corporate certificates, passwords and other secrets is required, it is possible to use
Hashicorp Vault or mechanisms that inject values into environment variables.

HashiCorp Vault
Example of installing the integration point on Azure contains an example of a
mechanism that injects values into environment variables

We recommend configuring the integration point in the following order:

Minimum configuration to start the integration point
Optional configuration (e.g. external database, BEST/EDU integration, etc.)
One and only one messaging service

We recommend configuring the eFormidlings messaging service (DPO) before Altinn Digital Post (DPV) and KS SvarUt and SvarInn
(DPF) to ensure that the organization receives mail in the case and archive system (and avoid fallback to Altinn Digital Post and
KS SvarUt and SvarInn for organizations that have not configured eFormidligs messaging service)

Minimum configuration
The integration point requires that the organization's enterprise certificate is configured.
In addition, it is recommended to turn off support for eInnsyn, which is the only messaging service that is on by default. If
you are going to use eInnsyn, you can turn the support back on after you have verified that the minimum configuration is ok.
| Property | Description | Default value |
|--------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| difi.move.org.number | Organization number for your organization (9 digits) | (none) |
| difi.move.org.keystore.alias | Alias (name) for company certificate in keystore (case sensitive) | (none) |
| difi.move.org.keystore.password | Password for company certificate and keystore | (none) |
| difi.move.org.keystore.path | Path to keystore | (none) |
| difi.move.org.keystore.type | Format for keystore ( or ) | JKS |
| difi.move.feature.enableDPE | Turns on/off support for eInnsyn | true |
Example:

Optional Configuration
Environment (Production or Test)
Optional
Available Environments:

eFormidling Production
eFormidling Test

| Property | Describe