Url: https://eid.difi.no/nb/digital-postkassek#main-content
Title: Digital Mailbox | Help sites for common solutions

Digital Mailbox
The public wants to send you post digitally instead of on paper. There are two suppliers of digital mailbox, e-box and digipost. Digital mailbox is a secure digital solution to receive and store important mail from the public.

Decision letters, health information and other sensitive information cannot be sent by e-mail. It is free to create and use digital mailbox, and you can save the letters there as long as you want. You will be notified by mobile or email when you receive important mail from the public.

Get a digital mailbox
How do I get a digital mailbox?
How do I get a mailbox from Digipost?
How do I get a mailbox from e-box?
Why do I have to choose between two mailboxes?
Can I have a common digital mailbox with someone else?
Who is behind e-box and digipost?
Why do I get an email about creating a digital mailbox when I have already done this?
Log in to read your mail
How do I log into Digipost to read public mail?
How do I log into an e-box to read public mail?
Can I give others access to my digital mail?
Why do I have to use the ID port to open mail from the public?
Do I get mail from private companies in my digital mailbox?
Post digitally from the public
How do I know I have received mail digitally from the public?
Can I change mailbox if I regret it?
Can I choose to return to mail on paper from the public?
Am I responsible for mail from the public that I am unable to open?
What happens if I forget to check the digital mailbox?
What does it mean that digital mail is sent safely?
Can I have two digital mailboxes?
Save mail in the digital mailbox
Can the digital mailbox be full?
How long is Post from the Public Saved in my digital mailbox?
What happens to the mailbox at death?
Email

brukerstotte@digdir.no

NB! Do not send sensitive information about yourself and your electronic ID by email.

Important links
Statement
The service is provided by the Norwegian Digitalisation Agency