Url: https://eid.difi.no/nb/e insyn
Title: Eyishand | Help sites for common solutions

inspective
In an insight, postal records are published from state, municipal and county municipal bodies, as well as information on meetings and committees in these.

You have the right to apply and order access to the documents that are published on an insight. As a user, you can search freely in the solution and request access to documents that are not published in full text - completely anonymous and free of charge.

The solution is designed to be a common visibility solution for the state, municipality and county council. This will contribute to more transparency and access to the management, and make it easier for the user to find information on public case processing. Our goal is to make what can be complicated and inaccessible easier to find.

Evisation has been developed in collaboration between the Norwegian Digitalisation Agency (Digdir) and the municipality of Oslo.

How to use e -insight
How to apply in e -insight
"My Eye Syn"
User name and password to "My Eye Syn"
Questions and answers
Who is responsible for the sight and the content of the service?
What is the matter, document and journal entry?
What can I search for in sight?
What does full -text publishing mean?
What would I not find in sight?
Why do I access some documents, while I need to apply for access to other documents?
Why are some cases and documents except the public?
I'm looking for a case, but can't find it. Who do I contact?
I don't find the business that I want to seek access to, what do I do?
Will access requirements be recorded?
Who do I contact if I find errors or have questions about the content of a journal entry?
How long does it take for a case to come on an insight?
Can I ask for access anonymously?
Does it cost anything to ask for access?
Email

brukerstotte@digdir.no

NB! Do not send sensitive information about yourself and your electronic ID by email.

Important links
Statement
The service is provided by the Norwegian Digitalisation Agency