Title: Information to the citizen
Description: ""
Summary: ""
Product: eFormidling
Sidebar: eFormidling_sidebar

Em shape allows your business to send information to the citizen.

TOC
{: toc}

Introduction
Information to the citizen is all outside decisions and other important inquiries to the citizen.
eFruely support for sending information to the citizen makes it easy to send information to the citizen without
The additional requirements and other important inquiries entail.
The info process does not take into account the resident of the citizen, and should therefore only be used for receipt purposes and other use cases that do not involve the transmission of important information.
Information to the citizen is represented with the following process for the recipient:
| Process name | Process identifier |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| Info | Urn: No: Difi: Profile: Digital Post: Info: Ver1.0 |
Message content
Corresponds to message content for decisions to the citizen
Address messages
Messages are addressed from the sender's organization number to the recipient's birth number.
For recipients who have selected Digital Mailbox, this is preferred. For recipients who have not selected mailbox must sender
Even choose whether the message can be sent to Altinn Digital mail or whether it must be sent as physical mail. By sending physical
Post can the sender choose to use the printing service in digital mail to residents or handle these messages with
Own printing service. It may be okay to notice that the reservation and the opportunity to notify the inhabitant
ignored. If the content to be sent requires reservation respected must be respected
Decisions for citizens are used. 

graph lr
A {have selected digital mailbox?}
B ("a) printing service in digital mail to residents) Altinn digital mail")
C (Digital Mailbox)
A -> | yes | C
A ---> | No | B

Send messages
Corresponds to send messages for decisions to the citizen
Notification
Corresponds to notification for decisions to citizen
Assumptions
Corresponds to the prerequisites for decisions to a citizen
Configuration
Equivalent to configuration for decisions to citizen
Development

Example of information to citizen