title: confidential case handling
Description: ""
Summary: ""
Product: eFormidling
Sidebar: eFormidling_sidebar

Em shape allows your business to send and receive messages as part of confidential case processing.

TOC
{: toc}

Introduction
Confidential case handling is the handling of cases that include confidential information. Confidential
Information includes:

sensitive personal information
business secrets

Confidential case processing follows the same flow as regular case processing, but allows the recipient to associate additional access checks on messages to limit access to those who have a service need to read the messages.
Rules for processing confidential information can be found in the Public Administration Act and the Personal Data Act with
Adaptations from regulations for various areas such as child welfare. Central requirements include ensuring that the recipient
Has a service need for processing the information and not to process more information than is necessary. 
Confidential case processing is represented with the following process for the recipient:
| Process name | Process identifier |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Confidential | URN: NO: DIFI: Profile: Archive message: Confidential: Ver1.0 |
Confidential case processing is represented with the following process for sender:
| Process name | Process identifier |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| Archive Message response | Urn: No: Difi: Profile: Archive message: Response: Ver1.0 |
Usually, a business acts both as a sender and the recipient, but it is also possible to act only as a sender.
Message content
Corresponds to message content for case handling
Address messages
Corresponds to addressing messages for case processing
Send messages
Corresponds to send messages for case processing, with some additional requirements.
Before sending from the subject system, it must be informed that it is important to design the message so that the recipient can easily see what
The message applies so that it is as easy as possible for the recipient to route the message to the right person in
The recipient's organization.
Receive messages
Corresponds to receive messages for case processing, with some
Additional requirements.
Upon receipt to the professional system, the receiving system must ensure the necessary consequence of who can read the message.
Upon reception to Altinn Digital Post, the necessary concept of who can read the message is ensured. Read more
on:

Access to confidential post (external link)

Notification
Corresponds to the case processing, with some additional requirements.
Upon reception to the subject system, the receiving system must ensure the necessary notification of receiving confidentiality notification so that
The message does not risk being unread. The notification must be presented so that it will be read. The notification must
contain a description of what it takes to give access to read the confidential message.
Upon receipt to Altinn Digital mail, the business is notified of reception of notification. Notification goes to business registered
Contact information on Altinn. Read more at:

Requirements for notification by confidential post (external link)

Assumptions
Corresponds to the prerequisites for case handling
Configuration
Corresponds to configuration for case processing
Development

Example of confidential case handling