Title: Self -service as a supplier in the machine gate via the collaborative portal
Description: Self -service as a supplier in the machine gate via the collaborative portal
Sidebar: Self -Service_sidebar
Product: Self -Service
Redirect_From: /Self -Service_Web_Mainer gate_ Deliverandor

This document shows how you as an API provider can self-care scopes in the machine gate through the collaborative portal.


TOC
{: toc}

Self -service as a supplier in the machine gate
Assumptions
In order to create subsecopes in the machine gate, it assumes that the business is registered with a prefix. Read more about this on How to use the machine gate as API provider
Login (Scopes/APIs)
To get to the API administration interface, do the following:

Log in to the collaborative portal.
Touch "business services" in the left menu.
Touch "Administration of Services" in the left menu.
Choose "My API" in the environment you want to create scope.

Create Scopes

Complete the steps in "Login"
Press "New Scope".
Select Prefix and complete registration.
Press "Create" to save.

Videotutorial: (https://vimeo.com/427689809)

Access management

Complete the steps in "Login"
Press the scop to access control.
Scroll down to under the configuration and press "Add access".
Enter Organization Number and press "Add"
To delete an access, press the garbage can icon to the right of the organization with access.

VideoTutorial: (https://vimeo.com/427689702)

Disable Subscopes
NB! So far, access should be removed before a scope disabled. If not, those who have accessed will still get the scop listed on their available scopes.

Complete the steps in "Login"
Tap the scop to disable.
Tap “Change”
Tap "Disable" and confirm that you want to disable.

VideoTutorial: (https://vimeo.com/427689583)

Maintenance of mercantile data
Maintenance of invoice information and notification points is important for us to always have updated information on this. Notification point (s) receives emails in critical events in the solution and if nothing has been registered here, you can miss important information.
To manage mercantile data:

Login to the Collaborative Portal
Tap the "business services" in the left menu
Find the integration of the "API provider" and press it.
Tap “Edit Integration”
Enter information and press "Save" when done.

VideoTutorial: (https://vimeo.com/397388041)

Self-service as API consumer
Interior logging (integrations)
To get to the administration interface for integrations/clients, do the following:

Log in to the collaborative portal.
Touch "business services" in the left menu.
Touch "Administration of Services" in the left menu.
Choose "integrations" in the environment you want to create self -service in.

Create client to consume API

Complete the steps in "Login"
Press "New Integration".
Select "Machine Gate" on "Difi Service".
Tap "Add Scopes" to add the scop to consume. (If the scop is not in the list, then the API provider has not shared access to the business you represent.)
Complete the registration.
Press "Create" to save.

VideoTutorial: (https://vimeo.com/427689834)

Erase client

Complete the steps in "Login"
Tap the client to delete.
Press "Change".
Tap "Disable" and confirm.

Videotutorial: (https://vimeo.com/427689782)

Maintenance of mercantile data
Maintenance of invoice information and notification points is important for us to always have updated information on this. Notification point (s) receives emails in critical events in the solution and if nothing has been registered here, you can miss important information.
To manage mercantile data:

Login to the Collaborative Portal
Tap the "business services" in the left menu
Find the client in the list and press it.
Tap “Edit Integration”
Enter information and press "Save" when done.

VideoTutorial: (https://vimeo.com/397388041)

Often asked questions
The "prefix" field is empty when I create a new scope.
If the prefix field is empty, then your business has not created a prefix. Then you will not create a scope. Contact serviceedesk@dir.no.
The scop I will consume deficiencies when I press "Add Scopes".
Most likely, API provider has not shared access with the business you represent, or they have provided access to another environment. Contact API provider.
"New integration" is grayed into the production environment.
To manage in the production environment, you have to log in with the ID port. This assumes that we have entered your social security number in advance. About "new integration" is still gray after logging in with the ID port. Contact serviceedesk@dir.no
I see the integrations of a business other than what I expect.
Access to the collaborative portal and the self-service solution is provided on the basis of your email domain, which in turn is connected to a business on our site.  For large businesses and companies, it may be that email domains are reused across multiple companies. Contact serviceedesk@dir.no.